it's the 19th century and
professional strongmen are the
superheroes of the day
they can break chains bend horseshoes do
countless one-fingered push-ups
and lift more than their body weight
right over their head
i wouldn't tell you a thumper believe me
and hey
you can train yourself to become like
them too
okay grams have a seat before you hurt
yourself i'll take it from here
just start with a warm-up to get your
muscles ready for your strong man-style
workout routine
first grab the morning paper extra extra
read all about it
yeah thanks gramps now take one sheet in
each hand
your goal is to crumple it up into balls
it only seems super easy
but really you're giving the muscles in
your forearms a doozy of a workout
remember you aren't allowed to help
yourself hold your hands in the air and
don't press them to your body
keep going for a whole minute start
slowly then speed up
another quick warm-up before we get
started arm circles
and again you'll need two newspaper
sheets for this one
hold them just like you did that first
one now you'll crumple those pages up
while making
circles with your arms after 10 seconds
go
backward the longer you're into the
exercise the bigger the circle should
become
after 10 seconds change the direction
once again
keep going for one minute this exercise
is a real helper for anyone who spends a
lot of time
seated at a desk it works your shoulders
arms and upper back
all right you're all warmed up now let's
get into the meat and potatoes
strong men didn't care much about chest
size but they worked a lot to get the
perfect grip
they believed you can never lift
something unless you can hold onto it
with mighty strength
the first grip exercise is finger lifts
you'll need a heavy book
an encyclopedia will do just fine put
the book on the table
and lift it with your fingers only you
can involve your hand
or let it rest on the table keep going
for 30 seconds
you're ready to kick it up a notch now
lift it with just your index finger as
high as possible
don't let that thumb help once you've
raised it with your pointer finger
move to the middle one and so on until
you've exercised
each digit except the thumb now do the
same thing with your other hand
your thumb must be feeling so excluded
by now
reverse finger lifts are it's time to
shine
a similar exercise only now your palm is
facing down
start by lifting the book with your
thumb work it for 10 seconds
then keep going with the other fingers
until you reach the pinky
strangely enough by exercising your
little finger you're
one also working the thumb and two
greatly improving your grip that little
pinky accounts for 50 percent of your
hand strength
and repeat all the steps with your other
hand and we'll move on
now head to your utility closet because
it's time for forearm broom extensions
now if you don't have a broom a shovel
will work fine
grab the broom or shovel and squat with
it
hold it in a straight line parallel to
the floor if it's too hard to hold it by
the very end
move your hand further up toward the
middle the longer and thicker
the handle the trickier it is to hold
the broom straight
try holding it for 30 seconds with one
hand then switch
once you've perfected the empty broom
extension you can take it to the next
level
put a brick or anything with a similar
weight and size
on the other end of your impromptu
fitness machine
again hold it for half a minute in each
hand
time to build muscles in your legs and
stimulate circulation
in the lower limbs heel and toe raises
are
just what they sound like raise your
heels first then
do your toes and keep switching in turns
around 50 times
if you can't keep your balance hold onto
a chair as you're doing the raises
you're helping protect your leg joints
from extra tension and making your
ankles more
mobile one minute will be enough for
this one
now sit or lie down depending on how
exhausted you are at this point
start drawing circles in the air with
just your right foot and ankle
don't move the rest of the leg do 10
circles in one direction
then switch to the other side to make it
more
exciting you can try drawing the
alphabet in the air with your big toe
leading the process then switch legs a
minute on each
and we're moving on even if you aren't
planning to double your weight in the
air
you still need to work your biceps and
shoulders for this group
let's start with body resistant bicep
curls
stand tall with your feet together put
your left hand over in your right palm
your right arm is tucked against your
side your left forearm is crossing your
body
bend your right arm at the elbow and try
to lift that hand
up toward the shoulder use your left
hand to resist all this movement
when your right arm wins and reaches the
shoulder bring it back down to its
original position
the left hand will again resist by
pulling up
switch sides and do the same thing with
your left hand
moving and your right hand resisting do
five reps on each
no dumbbells needed the next exercise is
body resistant shoulder shrugs and it
comes in two parts
first clasp your hands like you did in
the last exercise
but now they're behind your back the
right arm is slightly to the side
the left forearm is crossing the back
now try to shrug your right shoulder
but resist it by pulling down with your
left arm
do 10 reps on each side for the second
part
keep your hands clasped behind your back
move your shoulders forward
and let your chin drop to your chest
from there
pull your shoulder blades together with
all your might
and move your head up do 15 repetitions
of this one
moving on to deep breathing stand as
tall as you can with your knees straight
raise your arms and chest breathe in as
much air as possible
slowly through the nose when you feel
like you can't let in
any more air start bending into a squat
exhale on the way down touch the ground
with your hands
and slowly stand back up do 15 of these
too
wrap up the routine with a side bridge
you can either put your legs on an
elevated platform
or do it off the floor get on your left
side
and put your body weight on your elbow
inhale
deeply and as you exhale pull your abs
in and get your hip
off the floor your waist goes up and
you're in a side plank position
make sure your shoulders don't touch
your ears stay in this position for
three seconds
then switch sides your right side will
now be on the bottom
do 12 reps on each side this exercise is
great to work out your pecs and makes
the chest broader and deeper
it also melts off side fat and
done